I have to apologize. Next week. Baruch Hashem, for Simcha, my step-niece is getting married in Lakewood, and Baruch Hashem, I have a schuss, an opportunity to go to that wedding, so we're going to have to switch the nights, even though we might lose the crowd, but I have no other choice, either cancel or switch. Switch? Switch tonight? I'll try again, I'll try again. Switch tonight, so Wednesday night. next week, Be'ez HaHashem. And tonight, I believe, is the Shloshim of Hermitson Kamenetzky, or today. Today or tonight, I'm not sure. It's Chumus Chas. It's a V'ad Sh'b'ez Chus. V'ilu Yim Nishmos HaHatahira. And the title was a little bit off. I must have texted it and dropped too many letters. It was supposed to say to serve Him, not to service Him. Even though it's about the service of Hashem. and then to write, to serve Him with joy. So we're up to Simcha part two. We thank the Litwin Mishpacha and the Vatchvitz Chosli Mishpacha, Rav Ram Ben Ben Tzien. Tzichrayon Havracha. עמדו את השם בשמחה Bayu lefana f'rnana. Every day we'd say these words standing, and there's definitely an Indian to say them with song. Bayu lefan of bernana, serve Hashem with joy, come before Him. with singing. Is that not right here? Here you go. Okay. A person might have thought that serving Hashem with simcha is a nice maila. It's a benefit. But we have to know... that serving Hashem with joy is a different mitzvah. It's not just an added bonus to the mitzvah. A mitzvah with joy? is a different mitzvah entirely than a mitzvah without joy. We mentioned last week. And the Torah tells us in Parashat Kisavai, The call has come because a person didn't serve Hashem with simcha. What's the pshat? Why is it considered so severe, Rachman L'Azlan, to be punished with such punishments, Hashem Yirachim? And there's a powerful drash that I once saw in a Sefer. that says as follows. the posseg that is right after the klaus, or right after this language, avtacha z'shem lo yavad z'shem, z'shem chavatu v'leivav, the next posseg is, v'avad to, And you will serve your enemies. And the drash is... That your service of Hashem. was done in such a way that it was as if you were serving your enemies. That's the drash, not the possum shot. You didn't serve Hashem with joy. You served him as if you were serving your enemies, Chas V'sho. and lacking joy. in the service of Hashem. is an offense. It's an offense. The MS is. Everyone's probably familiar with the Gamora. In Kiddushim, I think it's Laman Aleph, where the Gemara says, you have two sons. There's one son that serves his father, duck. A fancy meal with turd on min ha'elam. and he's going to Gehenna. What do you mean? He served his father. He was Mekai Mitzvah's Kibbutz. But he did it in a way that was perfunctory, probably worse than that. He did it in a way that he showed that he didn't want to be doing this right now. And he therefore is going to have to go to Gehenem for that. Rachman o'l-Islam. And then you have another son who serves his father, Bran. and he's going to get Nathan. Because the service is all in the way it's done. to throw down the duck. And say, here's the duck, dad. Let's not keep it off. Let's not keep it off. So I wanted to, I was thinking about this today, and I wanted to add two points. Let me just tell you. on this Chazal. I was talking to my Chavrusa that we spoke about a few weeks ago in the Einig, the famous Chavrusa, now he's famous, Rep. Kevin, Rep. Kevin Weiler. So I discussed the Vav with him a few days before, and he shared with me a beautiful perspective on this. coming from a person who himself had a journey into real Yiddishkeit. And he wanted to say, in essence, what the Torah is teaching us here. in Parshas Kisavai. is that fulfilling Judaism. that's half baked. reveals that one has missed the boat entirely. Because he doesn't understand what Avodah Hashem is. If he's doing it in this way, it means he doesn't understand what Avodah Hashem is. Avodah Hashem... is a relationship. Imagine a person, as a mushal. A person comes home and brings his wife a bouquet of flowers, and he says, My Rebbe told me I need to give these to you. how meaningful those flowers would be. Because he gave them to her because his Rebbe told him to. Get your stinking flowers out of here. I don't need your flowers. I think there's another Nakuta which is leading from the first, on the heels of the first. What is worse? If a person doesn't do any service, or if a person does service, innate begrudging way. in a way that shows that he doesn't want to be doing this. What's worse? To do it, not to do it at all? Not to do it at all? Or to do it in a way that shows that he doesn't want to do this? and a vulva in a safer, conscious l'chassanim. זה זה בג חדש. Revolver says, maybe it's a raya, perhaps it's a raya, that the latter is worse. The latter is worse. Why? Revolver says that if a husband... expresses affection to his wife, expresses ahava, But the wife can see that he doesn't mean it at all. The wife knows that he doesn't mean it. That expression of Aval, is painful, is hurtful. The expression of Ava, that's meaningless expressions, is more painful than if you didn't say anything. you're adding more wounds than if you wouldn't have said anything. Perhaps that's really... What the Gemara is teaching us in Kedushim. the person who's bringing his father. the most beautiful dish. but showing that he doesn't want to be doing this. He doesn't want to do this. It's worse than not doing anything. It's a slap in the face. It's a slap in the face to the father. It's a slap in the face in the relationship. I'm not interested in this relationship. I'm just doing perfunctory acts. maybe that's really what the Torah is revealing to us. Tachas Hashaloi, Avadot Hashashem, Besimcha Minz. that you're completely missing the boat of what Avaidah Hashem is. If you're just doing... Perform to react. I'm sorry, Arab Rosh Hashanah. I was speaking to Avichal Detsky. And he shared with me a Dover Niflo. He said that a Romavino was about to shacht his son. And the Maluch says, stop And he says, could I please, could I do anything? Could I make a little scratch in him, please? Al-Taslay Mu'min, no, nothing. And Avraham Avinu was so distraught, he wanted him to come to the mitzvah. And only when Hashem showed him the aisle, Nachas B'svach, did he feel comforted. says, Rav Chaldetsky will note in the Pesach, that Hashem did not send the message of the Barakah for him and his children until after this happened. right after he went up to bring his son as an Aqedah. He didn't get the brachas. When he showed how badly he felt that he couldn't be Mekiamit and only when he had the ayah was he comforted. Now He received the brach... Lawyul azar wa adaylan. Why? says Rabbi Kaladetsky, if he would have said, yes, Baruch Hashem, phew, I got away with it, I didn't have to do it. If Rabbi Ramon Vino would have said that, it would have taken away the things the Lashon Rabbi Kaladetsky used was. either 80 or 90% of the Shavius of Akedah. If it was not that much, a lot of the percent of the greatness of the Akedah would have been lowered if Avraham Avinu would have just said afterwards, I got away without doing it. The fact that Avram Avinu said, I need to be Mekah in this mitzvah. And HaKadosh Baruch Hu showed him the aisle. caused, revealed, revealed how badly Avraham Avinu wanted to be Mekai in this mitzvah and now that aisle is a schuss to the Nazarite people of Israel. And that aisle is used as a Shaffer. And on Rosh Hashanah we say, Shalom. Make your mice and better. I think the Lashon is Kishor Par. The Lashon we say in one of the Piyutim. And the Peshawar is. Klaal Yisrael. emulate Avraham Avinu, make your maisim filled with zeal. Enjoy. just like Ramavinu did? And that's the schutz that we have today with the Shifer. That's Reb Chaldez Yitom Yirev Hashanah. Last week, I was driving to Waterbury, as we mentioned last week, and we came to Blue Ridge, which was an experience, and Reverend Daniel Kalish had his whole island there. And he told the story of the Ger Tzedek. And Avchol Detsky said, I'm going to tell you something. I just popped in my head, I want to just share something which really fits beautifully with what we just said. I once, I mentioned this, I don't think I mentioned this ever, I once walked into Boston, I once was dabbling in Boston at the 12 o'clock minyan, and my Rosh Hashiva and I pair, walked in at 12.15, coming back from somewhere, and he said, is there a 12.30 minyan? I said, not that I know of. There still isn't a 12.30 minyan, I don't think so. So, Rosh Hashiva said to me, Ay, ay, ay, zozayna kapara. And I was like, I was trying to figure out how the Zolzayin HaKapar fit. It took me a long time, a few hours that night, I was like thinking about it. And then it hit me somewhere in the middle of the night, I was like, that's what he's trying to say. He's trying to say that for him, missing minion, it's such a tsar, that that tsar should be a kapar. That was the Pshavachar. Missing minion, he was mamish in such a tsar, they missed a minion. Zolzayin HaKapar. And Rav Kol Kaldas, he said in the Nezha Zegzach, he said that the Ger Tzedek was passing by the Goyin's house. on his way to the Sreifa. Hashem Yirachem. And the going opened his window and he said to the Yeretzedek, Avram ben Avram, Life Run Run and the Ger Tzedek started to run to be killed, Kiddush Hashem. So the Chaldez, he said, what was the Ger Tzedek, and what was the going? See, the Gertzellitz Chesben was another moment of life. It takes a certain amount of time to get to the streifa. Every single moment I have, as I'm walking, I have another minute of life. L'michab r'en of life. The goings ain't no. You have to be Zoriz L'kayim HaSan Mitzvah. And even if it means taking off some of your life, it's Kedai because a mitzvah that's done Bezrizos and Besimcho, it's a thousand times greater than a mitzvah that's done. Not Bezri Zuz B'Sancha. And Rabbi Chaldetsky said, I have a riot of the Vilna Goim from Moshe Rabbeinu. Because Chazal tells us that at Klish Baruch Hu told Moshe Rabbeinu to go to Har Nevi, the earth site was yesterday, Moshe Rabbeinu, Zayin Hatta. He went to Har Nevi, there was a number, there was 12 steps to get up to Har Nevi. He jumped all 12 steps, even though... L'chayrei should take more time and going, more life. And Meshabeinu went, and he went in a way of kfitzah to be Zoriz L'kaye Mitzvah Z'bayre. But the point is that I think it's unbelievable to hear from Rav Kolodetsky. What he's telling us is that a mitzvah that's done bezrizus ubesimcha is considered a thousand times greater than a mitzvah that's not done that way. And everyone is familiar with the Rambam at the end of Hilch HaSukkah. And the Rambam says, The joy that will make Adam happy in the third and fourth commandment that the great God has given him. וכה אמייני העצמי וסמכה זו anybody who holds himself back from this joy רואים להיפרה ממנו שם התחזר של איביו וצה ז'שם אליקח וסמכה ותבואיב I heard this Maga Nishnah. in my first year in Keilah, I think it was, Rabbi Sklar was speaking, and he said over this Magan Mishnah, it's impossible to give it over without reading the words, even though I usually don't like to read the words inside, but these words are just so powerful. It's a mitzvah, a mitzvah to Chazalem. And the Magan Mishnah says, V'shibachti ya'ni es hasimcho. The Apostle King Kehela says, I praise Simcha. Which Simcha? The Simcha of the Mitzvah. The good thing is that no one can do the Mitzvahs without the life of the Lord. A person should not be doing mitzvahs because they are an obligation on him. A person has to be filled with joy that he's doing the mitzvahs of Hashem. This is the point Rabbi Esai. It was good to come tonight to hear this. Do good because it's good. and choose the truth because it's the truth. And let it be light in your eyes. The Tircha, there's no Tircha, it's a mitzvah. V'yavin. And you should understand when you're doing the mitzvah, This is why you were created. to serve your Creator. וכשהעושה מה שנברא בשפיליי If you're doing what you were created for, you should rejoice. If you're a Sinchon, you're a Dwarf, you're a Dwarf Bethlehem. Oh, the joy. It depends on... Nareshkite. שאינן קיימן That doesn't last. אבל הסמכות והסיעס המיצוי Midas Obolimodas Hatoiro וחייך מה יעשים חמידה The simcha of mitzvahs, the simcha of learning Torah. is the true and eternal joy. לדבנת מעגל סזם נשום. The magnets are the muscle. A person. Who was? a diamond collector he sold diamonds And. he realized that he had left his diamonds. on the boat. And he was running back. to go retrieve his... bag of diamonds. and jewelry. before the boat. Took off and as he's heading back he sees one of the people from the boat coming towards him and schlepping bags with all of his might over his shoulders. Huge bags, very heavy bags. And this person looks at him and says, No. If the bags are very heavy, if the bags that you're carrying are very heavy, then they are my diamonds. My diamonds aren't heavy. Diamonds aren't heavy. Jewelry is not heavy. Bricks are heavy. If a person is schlepping mitzvahs to the Dom de Magid, then he doesn't know that they're diamonds. He doesn't realize they're diamonds. It's an unbelievable Gemara. The Gemara says, and this will bring us to our Uvda, the Gemara says the beginning of the fifth Perek and Brachas. There was a Moira that was laughing. And the other one said to him, why are you laughing? He said, why am I laughing? Because I'm putting on tefillin. I'm in the middle of a mitzvah. I'm putting on tefillin. I'm putting on film The emesis that I think the best Uvda, talking to myself as always, the best Uvda we could do is... At least, if not before it's filmed. Sometimes Tfilin, to remember the text of the other one right before Tfilin. But either Tfilin for sure is the best time. But any other time, at least Tfilin is set every single day. You say L'shei L'sheim Yichud before you put on Tfilin. Say L'shei L'sheim Yichud. You don't say L'shei L'sheim Yichud. You should, the Chayirah, say at least something from L'shei L'sheim Yichud. May it not be said, it's Ma'ashvam from the Chabetz Chaim. It might be Ma'akev. Perhaps some of the Kavanos of L'shei L'sheim Yichud before a person puts on Tfilin. Perhaps. but at least whether or not it's hellish. before a person puts on tefillin, I'm having a mind to my kind of mitzvah. of Ha'Beyre Yisparach. My mind's in the midst of Ha'Beyre Yisparach before I'm putting on tefillin. And as you're saying those words, to just let your heart be filled with simcha, asherenu, matav chalkenu, nocha mitzvah, that I have a schutz to be mekayim. Rabbi Israel Newman, the reshiva of Lakewood. So the last just popped in my head again. Also another story, another popper. You can call it a popper. So just to end the story, it's still 10.08. But Rabbi Israel Newman, Shlita, doesn't put on film on Chol Moed. So on Moed Tzoy, Pesach, on the night of Pesach, the entire night he stayed up. Why? he was so excited to Mekah in the Mitzvah of Tzvilen that he wanted to be up as the moment that it was Shaykh, the first moment that it was Shaykh to put on Tzvilen. He stayed up a whole night learning because of the excitement. It's not a person who's a Bar Mitzvah wacher. It's not a Bar Mitzvah wacher. It's a person, probably in his 80s. In his 80s. He stayed up a whole night, Mitzvah, Pesach, in the excitement. I'm a guy in- Mitzvah Hashem. You know, we hear these stories of Tzaddikim of the past, Kedusha Slevi, would wait every year before the Mitzvah of Lulav, and one year he was so excited to the Mitzvah of Lulav, it was in his, what's it called? In the break front, thank you. It was a glass break front, and he would wait. He'd look at the clock waiting for Nates, for Nates in the kind of Mitzvah of Lulav, and he just put his hands right through the break front, cut his hands, and he said, Lechagosh Leishina, it said to the Aaron Achaim that he was Leishina, means that even though Aaron Achaim's eslavos and joy of mitzvahs was greater than him, he was able to still put himself in a matzv that he wouldn't do something Mishunah like me. That's what the Gush Levy said. Me, I'm trying to have a Slavos like Aaron and Cain, but I do Mishuganah things sometimes out of my Slavos. But he would wait, so we hear this story of Kaddish Levi many, many years ago, and then we hear the story of the Havzah of Mechayim, and Yisrael Newman stayed up all night, to Mekaya in the midst of Tzfillin. And we have this close, every day it's longer, and to Mekaya in the midst of Tzfillin, at least once a day to try to stop. And just... to focus on that. can change the face of our, I pray to Hashem, I pray to Hashem, greatest night to everyone, hope to see everyone on Wednesday night next week, I apologize for the change in schedule. Only Simris
