Yes, Yakometz right now is... Taking Rav Kandetsky around. The Hiligah Yakal Metz, the Hiligah Rav Kaldetsky. He's in Waterbury now. On the sheer heart, by the way, has Sharon been available? Oh, Baruch Hashem. If you go into the archives and look. Chaz Dei Hashem. The big akars, I'll tell you. First and foremost, I thank the Luton Mishpacha. Mishpacha should bench. Pensiyon Mishpacha, what tremendous. Nechama and the vadim that are in this house should be eschus. on this month. So today is a big day. It's Aleph Adar. And it's a question. I discussed today in my trip with Raph Kaldetsky to Waterbury. So we discussed... when exactly the mitzvah starts. Does it start by the moylan? Does it start... And I hope that this will start with you, that it will start with everyone. And I hope that you will have a great year That's both months that we came out with today. And considering that it's a double dose... I felt it was apropos that we should... Speak, Be'ez Hashem on this great subject. And also it should be a schutz to bring Sinches in this house. There was a time in Yeshiva, years ago, I don't know how many years ago it is now, when I spoke about the topic of Simcha. And I felt that there was a little bit of a danger. in discussing the topic of Simcha. in the way that I did it, meaning to say that I felt that I dissected the mida too much. And when you dissect something which is an emotion, it can be very anticlimactic. And it can have a detrimental effect on a person's joy. which is really in a certain sense a natural, spontaneous emotion. and it can make it very mechanical and robotic, and therefore... We're going to try, Be'ezus Hashem, to uncover the greatness of this Midah without dissecting it too much. And always being cognizant that whatever we say, as an all-subject, is only a part of the big picture. Only a part of the full story.

Is it like making like a... We're hearing the... We're hearing the mic. Oh, sorry about that. Thank you. Thank you so much. Oh, no, it's here. Oh, that's right. Thank you, sorry. Cool. The first thing they have to know and appreciate is... And when it comes to this middah, It's vital. How vital is it? The Pesach says in Parshat Skisavoy. because The mitzvahs were not done b'simcha. All the klobos came. Chag Monon Tzlan, Agavurcha, Yinahagodes Arzeh Elvanen, Mibring. I forget who it is right now. That there are 48 Klaus. No, there were 90, 98 klalas, Tzadiches, Tzadiches klalas in the Teichacha, and there are Tzadiches Karbonois that are brought on the Yom Tov of Simcha. the Tikkun to the Kualis comes, the Yom Tov of Simcha we bring, Tzadiches Karbonos, if I remember correctly. Just Agavurcha. So before we try to understand that, Pasuk Be'ez Hashem, hopefully, and other va'adim to come, Be'ez Hashem. we have to observe the following question. If Simcha... is so vital. To avoid us Hashem. Then why isn't it placed? as a commandment. in the Tehran. תביא בשמחה. And if an aveira, I'm sorry, if atzvus is such a terrible thing, depression, sadness, so why isn't it written as one of the aveiras in the Torah? I heard from my Rebbe many years ago something that resonates so deeply, and I've repeated it so many times since then. I am your Lord, Moshe Lieber. Send this to us. I think in 10th grade, many, many a year ago. And he said as follows. All of the fulfillment of Torah. comes from Simcha? and all Averus come from Atzvos. There is no specific commandment for Simcha, or... Avera of Atzvos because everything comes from both of these mitzvahs. The whole Torah comes from Simcha or Atzvos. And in a way, it's very, very much like that which Reb Chaim Vital says about all mitzvahs. Reb Chaim Vital is famously quoted and explaining, it's actually in the beginning of Moshe Dan Kestenbaum, speaking about Waterbury. I'm Moshe Don Kestenbaum. Shlita. my friend, our friend, he wrote a Sefer called Elam Amidas. Thank you. Elam Amidas. In that Sefer, he brings right at the beginning. It's very Kedah, very Ben-Tirah to acquire the Sefer. And at the beginning of the Sefer, he writes this Rav Chaim Vital, word for word, exactly as the Lashon has written. Rav Chaim Vital says, how come it doesn't say in the Torah anywhere that you have to have Midas? Rav Chaim Vital famously explains, it's because Midas are the Klee which holds Torah. The Torah doesn't say you have to have Midas because you can't have Torah Unless you have Midas and if a person doesn't have Midas Chas V'Shalom, he doesn't have the vessel to hold Torah It's a prerequisite. for Tyra. Tyra Stans. on Midas and in the same sense the Midah of Simcha or Chasvasham vice versa, the Midah of Atzvas. The Torah couldn't command one isolated Mitzvah of Simcha because all of Torah comes from it. And when it comes to Atzvos, How many times have we heard as Bokhrim? I know I heard from my Rebbe many times, and it's something which I say over to my Talmidim as well. More than what the Yetzirahara wants in the Avera that he causes a person to do, Chas V'sham, is the depression that follows. Why? Because if he can just get him into melancholy, then he's got a lot more Averas coming from that, Chas V'sham. The Averis come from Atzvos. And the Atzvos is the bigger victory of the Yetzahara than the Aver itself.

The word Simcha is very much connected to the word Tzimcha. which means growth, sprouting forth, blossoming. The word ATSVOS comes from the word etz, which is a piece of wood, a piece of dead wood that has no more growth in it. It's dead. It's not going anywhere. Because joy... When a person is happy, that's what causes growth. Besides the fact that it's true when you're growing, you're happy. That's another point. But the point over here is that growth... I'm sorry, joy brings growth. Joy brings growth, causes accomplishment.

There's a very beautiful reminiscence to this. The Gemaras that we're all familiar with from Sukkah. And from Erevin, there's something called Amois Seichakois. There's two different sizes of Amos. One that's five-twachen, one that's six-twachen. If it's a wider ama, it's called a laughing ama. Why is it called a laughing ama? Because it's bigger. It's expansive. When something is expansive, that's called laughing. Because laughter is an expression of something that's... when a person has joy and he's... He's laughing. There's the expansion from that. As opposed to the small Amos that are constrained and tight. Joy brings a person growth and expansion.

Perhaps we can understand in this light, something that the holy Arizal said. Everyone knows this is famous. The Arizal said, that everything that he achieved in his avidah Hashem came from his simcha b'mitzvahs. Now you could say, rightfully so, it could be that what he's talking about was his simcha b'mitzvahs. This has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. It was something called simcha b'mitzvahs. We're not talking about simcha b'mitzvahs right now. We're talking about the middah of simcha. But maybe, maybe it was also from the joy too, not just the joy in mitzvahs, from the joy too that caused His ultimate success in Avodas Hashem. I'm not saying pshat. I'm just noting a Davar Nifla that the Arizal was crediting all of his success to the joy of mitzvahs.

The Gemara says in Masechet Taanit, and this is the Gemara we started off with, and we spoke about this. This is already third year that we're having Va'adim during Adar. So we did speak about this Gemara at least once before. There's a Gemara in Masechet Taanit that has to do with Av, and that sustains the connection to Adar. What's the kesher between the two? Many pshatim, but the most famous pshat is the pshat of the stove. We learn from the Gemara that the stove is always on. Sometimes you raise it, sometimes you decrease it. But there's something that's constant. That means all the time. That means, even though it's hard to understand, even on Tisha B'Av, there's an element of simcha. Simcha b'mitzvah. But there's never a time that you turn off the stove. The stove is constant. Mema'atin, marbim, but it's constant.

It's a close talmid of Shlomo Feifelt who learns in our kehillah, and I wasn't planning on mentioning this point. Hashem, we just lost. His only son. His name is Rezeel Stone. I'm just quoting from him something that he told me from Rav Shlomo Feifeld. And as I'm quoting it, I'm thinking to myself, I just want to be menachem avel. I just wanted to be in an act of chessed for his son, for his only son. He had two children. A boy and a girl. He just lost his only son, Rachmana l'tzlan. In my life, I never saw such a thing. He was sitting and he said to me, He's smiling. It's like, Who wants from us? It was otherworldly.

Rabbi Ziviel Stone, he's a rabbi in Yitzchak, a Yiddish Chassidishe Yid, and he learns by us in the afternoon. So he once told me from Rav Shlomo, that Rav Shlomo asked Rav Hutner, Which path in life is the light found? Tell me, Rebbe. Where is the light found? Which path has the light? And Rav Hutner told Rav Shlomo, two words, Nor Besimcha. Nor Besimcha. Only b'simcha, that's where the light is found. He didn't say Simcha b'Mitzvahs. Nor Besimcha. It's a bigger way to simcha, but it's a way of life.

As Rav Pam often quoted that famous line, people looking for the city of happiness have to realize it's all in the state of mind. Happiness is all in the state of mind. There's an equilibrium. It's a davar nifla. So ashre kocha had it that I was able to spend the day with Rav Kaladetsky. So I was sharing with one of my siblings today how after two hours of waiting by the airport this morning, he came out. And he said, so he's probably so upset that he missed davening. And then he took back his words and said, oh, he probably doesn't get upset, right? I'm like, no, he doesn't get upset. He came out, mamish, the same way he would have come out if he came out five minutes after the flight or two hours after the flight. Kach nigzar m'hashamayim. There's no such thing as traffic. Rav Chaim Kanievsky always says, no traffic. Everything is decreed from Heaven.

So I was talking to a mashgiach, a choshev Yid that I learn with once a week, Yehuda Harwitz mashgiach of Mesifta Toras Yaakov. So we're talking about this concept of constantly being happy and nothing upsets you. And he said the pasuk, which is really at the end of Hilchos Megillah, the end of Hilchos Purim. V'tov leiv, mishte tamid. A person has a good heart, and Rav Miller always says it means a good mind. A good mind, a mind that's filled with simcha, mishte tamid. Life is a full 24-7 celebration. There's nothing that upsets a person. It's all in the state of mind. A person has the ability. This is within the capacity of a human being. That's why Adam is called Adam, because Adam is the same letters as me'od, very, very, very. Rav Hutner used to always say that. We don't even realize how much capacity we have. A person has the capacity within him to always be happy. There's endless joy within us. But it's our avodah to tap into that reservoir. And may we all be zocheh, b'ezras Hashem Yisbarach, to that. Mishenichnas Adar, marbim b'simcha.
