Let's see if I can find it. But Chaim Zimman's on there. Chaim Zimman, that's it. Chaim Zimman is here. For the 90th V'ad tonight. Be'ezus Hashem. I'll have to wait. I want to thank the Bergman residents, Bergman Mishpacha, for opening their residence. And this home should be filled with simchas and simcha. Especially considering tonight's topic. Uh-oh. Sincha. Oh, Sincha. Sincha Part 4, Happy Eyes. Wow, what a title. We have to look positively at the three tzaddikim, actually four, of Chaim Zeman, that have joined us tonight. It's not about... I just was told... If Hirsch left a big town, Moravi, did I do this? Moravi, to go to Frankfurt. to only 11 families. And he had in Moravi, the numbers are like, I don't remember the exact numbers, crazy numbers of shuls in Yidden that are under his jurisdiction, so to say. And they asked him, what's the shock of leaving such a big ma'atziv and going to such a small ma'atziv? It was neger to someone's shaila. This story, there's no resemblance. It's a big deal. So. Herse answered in his inimitable fashion. Hashem doesn't count Jews. He weighs them. He weighs them. So, Baruch Hashem, we have four tzaddikim sitting here. איזה עושר השמח בחלקוי. Who is the rich man? the one who is happy with his lot. And Chazal are revealing to us a Dover Nifla. that wealth is all about one thing. Wealth is. About perspective. Happiness. Sameach Bechalki is all about how you perceive it. How you perceive what you have. That's the bottom line. There was an amazing book. There is an amazing book. It's called, it's a kid's book. It's called The Happiest Box. I'm not sure if you've acquired it yet. Say every young Ben Tyra should acquire this book. And Bas Tyra. Yes, and Bas Tyra. It's about a boy that was always depressed and his parents had a fridge delivered to the house and they saved the box. And they put on the box and it was... room, they put him in the box, the happiness box. And he said, what is this? They said, in this box, you go in this box, you could only have happy thoughts. Only positive things can go through your head. Kuzman that you're in the box. And he said, oh, wow, that's very amazing. And he went in it every night for a few minutes. and he loved it in there. Because the place... was filled with such optimism, positivity. It was... difficult to leave and eventually The cleaning lady took the box out of the house, and he lost the box, and he was... Dejected. And his parents said, guess what? It has nothing to do with the box. It has only to do with your brain. It has only to do with what you think and you create with your mind. Because the happiness box is life. And the way you're going to perceive everything you have in your life, is going to be the key to the happiness of your life. In the safer, open your eyes. That's a safe ride, definitely. and courage. Great book. Great book. Thank you for the advertising. inner self. So... There's an amazing muscle. I don't think it's true. But Rev Miller tells a story. about a uh Mafiosis. Fellow. that sells his house to a yid. and he had buried in the basement. and a secret. Compartments. Secret door. Tremendous amounts of money. millions, maybe billions of dollars, let's say. And for 30, we have this guy, this guy that sells his house to a yid. and the Yid is living there. For 30 years, he has no idea. in the basement. trapdoor. that will lead him to billions of dollars. One day the Mafiosis is leaving this world. Calls up. I did. I gotta tell you something. And he tells him, by the way, in confessions, I left money in the treasure underneath your basement floor, the panel, whatever it is. The question is, when did this Yid become rich? Lom desh Hashayim. When did the Yid become rich? He was rich for 30 years. He was rich. He had within his possessions billions of dollars. He just didn't know. The switch. to becoming rich happened at that one moment. when he was told what he has. As soon as he understood what he has, Now he became rich. even though it was there the whole time. a constant understanding and receiving gifts. And Miller also gives his Marshall. receiving gifts that is Hasnuh And he's looking at the watch that someone gave him, a Rolex, and he has no idea what a Rolex is. To him it means nothing. And someone comes over to him and says, this happens all the time. Especially like someone who's very aloof from any gosh me in this world. And someone gives him a very fancy Madonna. He has no idea what it is. And someone tells me, this is a very expensive gift. You have to realize what you just got. So the person who's telling it to him, is the one That's allowing him... to become rich. by understanding what he was just given. what he received, what he has. It's an unbelievable measure of Shmuel. And it's parish and office. I believe it's on this Mishnah that Moshe Aaron Stern and his Sefer, Ba'ez and Anucha, Sefer and Shalom Ba'ez, which is everybody in the Torah used to acquire, they didn't have it in English, happens to be Olcha Sanim Dam Zeycha, to teach. I always tell them, it's in the booklet that I give them, Bayis and Meduha, that's where you go. Hermosha, Iron Stern, Shalom Bayis. And there he tells a remez. Some of these things, I'll talk in the Open Your Eyes, I apologize for those who read it. But he brings there a remez, a Merdek remez. HaShemayim Mimau Ve'ala'aretz Mitochas The heavens above? and the earth underneath. So he says, Hashemayim is referring to Ruchnias. When it comes to Ruchnias, you should always look up. You should always look to those who have more Ruchnias than you. When it comes to the arets, when it comes to gashmias, mitachas, always look to those who have less than you, so that you'll appreciate what you have. Like the Gemara tells the story in the Darm, I think it's in Dachnun, of Rebbe Aikiva, who was pulling out straw from his wife's hair. They were sleeping on straw, that's how poor they were. And an ani knocked on the door and said, could I please have some straw? My wife just had a baby, I have no straw to lie on, to put the baby on. my wife should lie on. And he was at his wife, look, there are people who have less than us. They don't even have straw. At least, Baruch Hashem, we have straw. Allah haretz mitochas. Ali Mansour, Solgazunsan, asked a very strong, I can't imitate him well, very strong question. Very strong. Very strong question. He says, how come the Gemara says The Mishnah says, the Gemara says, Yeshlen Mana writes him a sign. The person has 100, he wants 200. On the flip side, the Gemara also says, Ein adam met, lechatzit avatob yado. A person doesn't die if he has. A person doesn't die with half of his desires in his hand. The posh of the kasha. What do you mean? A person has mana. He wants to. He wants to, but he has a mana. So when he dies, at least he has chazi tavas abiyadah. He does have chazi tavas abiyadah. He doesn't have all that he wants, but he has chazi tavas. He says, Elie, the Pashit of Teretz also. But you have to hear it. We have to chazer it and internalize it. He doesn't have the mana. He doesn't have chazi tavas abiyadah. Because when a person is always looking for more and doesn't appreciate what he has, he doesn't even have what he has. Ain't other mates but chazi tavas abiyadah because he writes a Zion. Asaph says, Yehoshua, I have a lot. Yaakov, he says, yesh li'ko. I have everything that I need. Sha'as Ali Kol Tzarki is coming from the fact that we are Bnei Yaakov. Sha'as Ali Kol Tzarki. If I was supposed to have more, I would have had more. Everything I have is exactly what Hashem feels is best for me to have. What do you mean, Ritz HaMasayim? Yesh LeMana, I have the mana. If I understand Yesh LeKol, it's not Ritz HaMasayim. אבל אורץ מתלכס. At the end of the day, the reason why we titled me and the whole VAD commission, VAD association. titled the title tonight, Happy Eyes, because at the end of the day, all of happiness... is in the eyes, in the perspective, the state of mind like we mentioned in the first VAT. And I'm sure everyone has heard this word. Oinig and nega, everything in this world. is either a pleasure or a pain. And there are people who look at life as everything's a pleasure or everything's a pain. And it's all dependent on what's the difference between now and the future. and ayin, or ayin and nega, I'm sorry, oyneg and nega, the same letters, it all depends on where you put the ayin, the ay. The ay is the source of what's going to change this from a nega into an oyneg. Rav Gifta's Rebbe, was famously known, besides for the story with him and the bris, the whole story that Rav Shalom Shavjot brings on Parshat HaYisorah, but there's a famous moshul of the Mordechai Paragalman, he says, about the person that kept looking at different things in life, looked at different paintings, and he kept saying, it looks like Zoyer milk, sour milk. Then someone said, buddy, take off your glasses. And the glasses were covered with sour milk. He said, everything looks like sour milk because that's what's on your glasses. A person has to put on rosy glasses, as Rav Miller always says. You have to put on rosy glasses. You put on rosy glasses, the whole world is rosy. The whole world is just an einek. V'tayv leiv? Mish te tamid. Leiv means mind. When a person has a tayv leiv, a good mind, A good person. perspective on everything, mishtet damit. And then he's always besimcha. He's always besimcha, because everything is good. Everything is good. And that's the greatest bracha possible. The greatest bracha is having a tithe life. It's much better than any possession. Because it's all about the way you perceive it anyway. It's all about the way you look at it. And Miller always says that when the Torah tells us a reward for doing good things, the Torah doesn't say anything about vacations, about cars, about houses. The Torah says you're going to have bread. You're going to have water. You're going to have a place to sleep. Clothing. It doesn't say anything about vacations. But what's the biggest bracha? The biggest bracha is, ובואו הולך כל הברacha, ואהי סגוכו. A person can have all the brachas in the world, But if it's not the Yisiguch, if it doesn't reach you, that means if you don't appreciate the brachos, then you have nothing. The whole difference between whether you have the Baruchas or you don't have the Baruchas are if the Hissi Kuchel. The richest man in the world could be the most depressed. Because it wasn't Ve'hisiruchah. He doesn't appreciate it at all. He never developed a tithe of late. If a rich person never developed a tithe of late, so what are all the possessions worth? Nothing. A person could have nothing, and he has a tithe of late, and he has everything. Where are you? The question is, where are you happy? Where does the happiness come from? The happiness comes from your eyes and your mind. That's the source of your happiness. Militel's a muscle. Unfortunately, I mean, or fortunately, I could say maybe, say fortunately or unfortunately, this is a true story that has happened. People have been... have had scares where they found something on their, you know, within them, on them that they took an x-ray of and it was very scary. And they're waiting in the waiting room to hear the results. The pach that's overwhelming them of who knows what's going to be. And then the news comes out and says, it was a mistake. It was a mistake. Chaz Dei Hashem was a mistake. There's nothing there. It was, there's nothing. There was nothing there. Nothing that was of any scare whatsoever. And the person walks out of that room, and Miller says, you don't need a vacation? You don't need a vacation. There's no vacation. The clouds. The sun. Everything's delicious. The whole world is delicious. Also in the book is a story that I've told to the Talmidim all the time. I don't think I've said it yet in the three years of 90 Vadim yet. We're up to 90 tonight. So there was a girl that when she was 18, this must have been many years ago, so she developed a cataract on her eye. And Rahman Al-Islam made her completely blind. In those days, I guess, this was something that they didn't know how to take care of, how to treat. And she ended up, Baruch Hashem, getting married. even though she, mamish, could not see anything. And she had children. And when she was 36, Ramila tells the story, they found a person who was willing to do surgery on it. And they did surgery. And her eyes were now covered over in the recovery room. And her whole family came in. And she had not seen now for almost 20 years. She never met her husband. I mean, she met him in voice, but she never saw her husband. She never saw her children. And the doctors started. Ramila tells the story that the doctors started Thank you. removing the bandage that was covering over her eye. And as soon as a drop of light went into her eye, she screamed such a scream that the doctor broke down crying because he was so overwhelmed by the sight that she was meriting to feel for the first time in 20 years. He couldn't believe it. He just broke down crying, the doctor. And when they finally let enough light in they can remove slowly the bandages, she opened her eyes, and she's looking at her husband. I mean, I hope she liked what he looked like. And she sees her husband, she sees her children, and she started to just pour out her heart. She says, I don't need anything else. Just give me these eyes. I don't need anything. She was feasting on the sight. She was literally just taking... taking it in like it was the most delicious food in the world. better than anything she'd ever experienced. She was seeing. She was seeing. Don't give me, I don't need anything. I have eyes. I don't need anything else but eyes now. Unbelievable how Hashem, Mirach, and we take for granted, talking to myself as always, we take for granted the endless, matanis, tovis, miracles that Yom HaVolem were experiencing. And what is it that puts us back in line and focus of life? So the passage goes, And behold, it was very good. And Chazal write on those words. What is Taif Ma'aid? Yesurin. Yesurin is Taif Ma'aid. Why are Yesurin Taif Ma'aid? Cesar Miller. When a person has a headache. When a person has a headache, it reminds him how good it is not to have a headache. Because it's Yisroel that smacks us in the head to realize how good it is not to have a headache. How Toiv Ma'id life is. And if a person experiences Yisroel, or he sees others going through difficulty, and Mother always says, if a person passes by, who is tapping a stick he can't see. HaKadosh Baruch Hu is sending you a reminder. Appreciate, appreciate. All Yisroel that anyone goes through is a wake-up call to appreciate. And therefore, I'm talking... Talking as chaveir, one to the other. Sameach te samach. Sameach te samach. We have to rejoice. Rejoice. when we realize how rich we are. I think that maybe, perhaps, the greatest uvda we could work on this week, I'll have to tell Shmuel afterwards, the greatest uvda that we could work on is once a day, once a day, to focus on one toiva, just one toiva once a day, to realize how rich we are. And I ask you to continue to Baruch Hasb, Bechom, Mili, Demetam, Asen, Aram, mishpachas, simchas shein lashir not only simchas but the tayiv leiv to appreciate all the simcha and bracha Hashem is giving us halvayi vayter with the ultimate simcha and geula, next week Ba'ez Hashem may apologize again to make everyone crazy, but a very close Talmud is getting married Tuesday night so we're going to have to do another switch, hopefully Ben Sion will be available back to his house, l'met Hashem, in two weeks from tonight I think right, is Thanks. two days before the Yom Kippur? No, three weeks. Yom Kippur. Yom Kippur. Three weeks from tonight. Or Mavosh Kippur. Three weeks from tonight, Be'ez Ha'Hashem, hopefully, in Ari Monk's house, that's where that menorah has been, we will have the pre-Purim Hesedus together. Be'ez Ha'Hashem.
