No. and sing Oh, that's what the brothers are. the Litvin Mishpacha, and give a bracha. Hashem should bench the entire Mishpacha with every mila demetav. We want to have a mind that the Vaj should be a skhus, a nishmas, Avram, B'mentzion. We want to make a special announcement. And next week, to be confirmed, TBC. To be confirmed, next week we will have approximately 9.30, a pre-Purim, K&H, year three. And everyone is invited this time, for the first time. No, not for the first time. for the first time since the first time. time. Because last year we got some flack last year that the nun... COVID or non-vaccinated. It was, yeah. You're not going to have to show any cards, no, and nothing. You don't have to show your age for drinking. It's so good. Everyone can come. The week after that, if it's okay with everyone, we're going to do it on Wednesday night due to Chasana Baruch Hashem. When is Becker's wedding? Sunday. Sunday. Okay, good. We're trying to make K&H weddings on Sunday. Shlem HaHamelach teaches us, and here we are, we're holding, we're all still holding by resolution of doubt, and we want to come to the Shlemos in the sugyu of resolution of doubt, or at least touch the Shlemos. And we start with the Pasuk that I believe is in Kahalas. sometimes mix up Qoheles and Mishle Ipsukim, but I believe it's in Qoheles. Elohim Ossah Esa Adam Yashar Hashem made man. Street The Hame Big Soog is by Neutraben. and men Seek many calculations. There's a Yashras, there's a clear and straightness that Hashem made the human being with. And yet it's a horror. brings complications. makes people become complex and creates confusion within a person. One of the words that I had written down, Tafshin Pei, to share with the Ilam before Purim, אני ראה על הנות this week, that I wrote next to it, did not share in Tufts and Bates, that I knew that I could hold it for a future time. So I don't think I ever shared it yet with the Ilum. You know, I'll just say one of your favorite words, but one of the words that resonate very deeply with me. on perm And it's a word from Rav Hutner that's very apropos for our Siddur for tonight. And the Pach Yitzchak tells us from the Arizal, and Nome, and others, Svarim Aktaishim. that Yoim Kippur means that there's a deep connection between Yoim Kippur and Purim. Agavurcha, I always noted something interesting, that they seem to be opposites on the other end. Purim has the yim tainis before, and the yim achila. Yom Kippur has the Yom Achila before, and then the Yom Tainas. when it comes to Purim. The is very hidden, is very open. When it comes to Yom Kippur, the binadam Lamakim is revealed in Kippur and the Baradun HaVeira is very hidden. I just thought it's fascinating how they are seemingly on one side and the other, two opposite sides. complementing each other. So Rav Hutner says that these two Yemen taithim fulfill the dictum of the Torah. of Rebbe L'Axandri and of Yudzayim and Brochas. Ritzeinaynu la'aseis ritzeincha. The essence of both of these Yom Mita'ivim is tapping into the essence of a person, of who we really are. And we really are just one thing. We want to do Ratzayin Hashem. Every single Yid has one desire, deepest desire, Retzayneinu. Like David and Malach says, Last night's retelling. חופצתי. And what's stopping us? Two things. S'or shebi isa. The yeast in the dough, referring to the Yetzirah, as Rashi says right there in Brachas. And Sheba Malchias is the influence of the Goyim. Those are the... Two things. that are being ma'akevos. in doing what we really want. Cesar of Hutt in her newer volume. I feel like we have spoken about this in the past. It's three years now, Sight. It's hard to remember sometimes what I share with Taylan. Khazar is also good. But rev- Rav Hutner brings the Gemara The G'moran Shabbos of hell. Allah is the love and the goodness of Baruch Hu. is going to ask the office what to do, he wants to bring The Gula. That's what it seems from the tomorrow. whether it's the Gula or whether it's at different points in time. But HaKadosh Baruch Hu says, what should I do with my children? They sinned. And Avraham is going to say, They should be destroyed. And Yaakov is going to say, Yimahu al shemecha, they shall be destroyed. And Yitzchak says, please Hashem. Please could we make a deal between us? Let's take... Let's do the following. Let's do that half of the Avaris of the Jewish people. should be on my shoulders and half of it will be on your shoulders. Hashem says. It's a deal. And because of Yitzchak Avinu, Klal Yisrael will be saved. That's why Reb Brian Schlitter mentions sometimes that brisim, that we say in the Bracha by a bris, who shu'asa li Yitzchak, and his promise to Yitzchak. that he's going to bring the Geulah for Cholestron, that's why. One of the reasons why we take the middle matzah, which is the matzah of Yitzchak. and we split it in half. to represent the fact that Yitzchak of Vinu won the case, so to say, for Klal Yisro by saying, half is on you and half is on me. And that's also B'Shatra's name. What Torah says, And Parashas told us why the Malachim, we mentioned this. of John in one of the Khabouras that Shabbos Parshas told us. that The malachim were crying into Yitzchak's eyes. They were Malachi Rachman. Stanisław. wouldn't see his son doing harm? doing Ra. And then he would be able to defend Qaliyah. Because he never saw his son doing wrong. He never rebuked his son because he never saw his son doing wrong. Why? couldn't he see his son? Because he was blind. Because the Malachi, Rathamim, Christ, pride and desires. No river I am. Cesar of Huttner. If the essence of Purim and Yom Kippur are one. That means they're like one yamtas. And there's one essence. That's the common denominator of both Yom M'toivim. It's Ritzeinaynul As is Ritzeincha. That means, on these young men, I'm a tywin. Those two obstacles. are taken away. On Yoimaki Purim, the Gemara says in the Darm, the end of the third paragraph, Ha Satan is Gematria 364. On Yom Kippur, the Sa'ar Shabbat Yisrael, the Yetzirah, is lessened. On Purim, the Shibet Malchias, the victory over the Goyim is brought out, the Shibet Malchias is lessened. when you have these two Yom Taivim coming together. The ma'akvim are removed, and all that's left is ritzayneinu nas, that's ritzayneinu ch'am boliv bolivotner. And he says, seemingly like a malitza, Play on words, possibly. That's the way I understand it. אבי ימתי וזכרתי על השם חצי לכם. There's one Yom Tiv, it's called Yom Kippur Pur. It's one Yom Tov. Yom Kippur and Purim is one Yom Tov. חצי להשם הפ. of I didn't realize at that point. The point of... Yitzchak was... The two Ma'akthim. That's stop. people from doing Ritzayin Hashem. Is the 8th a horror? It's success to Hashem. The half of... of The Ma'akiv is the Yitzhahorah. Hashem, you created the Yitzhahorah. the half of the ma'akiv that's from me. is Asaph I gave birth to Asa but we take away The Ma'akvim that's... we brought... All that's left is Ritzanein and last is Ritzaincha. So there's one Yom Tiv called Yom Kippur and Purim. is Like every other Yom Tov is Chasid Hashem Chasid Lachem. This one Yom Tov. חצי לשם. The half. of the Ma'akev that was created by Hashem, the half. of the ma'akiv that was made, so to say, given birth by Yitzchak, those two ma'akiv taken away, all that's left on Yom Kippur and Purim is one thing. Ritzeneinu lasis ritzenecha. Chayiv inesh levesume. What does it mean? Levesume is the lashing of b'samim. When you're trying to smell b'samim from the samabachs, you open it up. You open up the salmon box and all of a sudden this sweet smell. comes in. comes out. comes out. נכנס יאין. Yots aside What's the secret that comes out with wine? There's a lot of confusions. during the year. There's a lot of sphages. that people have. in who they really are and what they really want. A person drinks the iron. On Purim, Adlo Yada. Remove all the chesbina yithrabim. So you can come to the core of yourself. Remove all the cheshbayim, all the sveikas. Get down to the core of who you really are. There's no joy like the resolution of doubt when you come in touch with yourself. That's the Simcha of Purim. in a deeper way, perhaps. We could explain it as follows, Lanius 90, maybe. The Bershkarov was once watching children. Plank. playing so happily. And he said, you see those kindleach? They're so happy. You know why they're so happy? Because they're knocking me great. and in its purest form. without Chateauim. A person is just joy. filled with joy. That's why. After Yom Kippur, after Yom Kippur, there's such... A natural joy that emanates from a person. Like if Sternbach says, That the reason why there's such a joy in Yom Kippur leading into Sukkos, is because we're knocking me chayt, like it says about Yerushalayim. Yerushalayim is called the joy of the earth. Why is it the joy of the earth? Because there was never a time that a person went to sleep in Yerushalayim without a chayt. You always could be M'chapi Yercheit and Yerushalayim, so Yerushalayim is M'sayis Chola Aretz. when there's Nikios Menachet. It's this... This Reinkite, this purity, purity brings joy. Children. are naturally so happy. Because there's no Chatein. covering over their true selves. Maybe that's why. you'll notice something amazing. We could hypothesize, psychoanalyze, but you could find the child in the middle of the night, comes out of bed. and they're mamas like it's the middle of the day. an adult, even if he is well rested, is going to be naturally groggy. I mean, he may become a chazikim, so not to be groggy, but naturally he's groggy. A child, right away, is ready to roll, is dancing, happy. Sometimes you, you know, it's amazing. You can wake up a baby, I don't know, you shouldn't wake up a baby, but when a baby wakes up, you know, all of a sudden he's smiling. Like, what is he smiling about? I noticed this last week. Can I have my... My Enochal woke up from the Lava Sudha, I run to him, and all of a sudden he's smiling. Like, you think about it for a moment. What is he so happy about? כי בעצם, בעצם, הקדוש ברוך הוא אלה כמעשה אדם יאשר. Without the confusions, without the chatoyim, be'etzim, a person is happy. I think it's even more than that. I was once thinking about this brisker rub by a Sudas Yamtiv. I was eating by my uncle and aunt, at Marshall. and Dana, now they live on Reeds Lane, then they were still living in Sutton Park, and my cousins, Avki Klein and his wife, were there for the Suda, that was about 15 years ago probably, and we started a song during the Suda, Siyam Tiv, Suda Sukkis, and all of a sudden it's Kiddulach, who are now, my Talmidim, some are already post-Besemajish, some are already in Besemajish, and Besemajish, Masifta already, and they started dancing with no inhibition, I was watching them. These kids were dancing. They didn't care. The way they looked. They didn't care what they were doing. They were just dancing. Mamesh. Reina. Pure joy. And I was amazed at this. the unadulterated joy of children. The Goyim says on the Pesach Chata Zreivetz, It's a horror. feeds on Suffolk. Amalek uses Suffolk. What's the biggest Suffolk that the Yetzirah and Amalek use? That's the suffix of self-doubt. Like it says by Yosef Atzadik, V'tespeseu b'nbigdoi. And Svaram say, Now what did she do? She grabbed him by his rebelliousness, meaning she said to him, you are worthless. You might as well sin. Because you're worthless. And what held Yosef when he saw and he said no. I am worth I am valuable, sheen kamayu. I have tremendous chashivos, I have tremendous Eiruch. When he saw Eiruch Atzmai, that's what allowed him to overcome. when a person is plagued by the Yitzharah of self-doubt. That's what causes. L'Pesach chatas roivetz, when there's... A sapphic in a person. That's where the sin lies. ולהשוי לב שמחה. when a person is able to push away the cheshbeinu isra'bim. and to see the clarity of who he really is. that he's a Ben Malek. He's a Helikon Neshama who just wants to do. Lazarus, Ritzai, Navi, Cheshem, Hashem, Ayim, that's who he really is. All the covers are removed. That's the simcha of clarity. That's the greatest simcha of all. When a person comes in contact with his true self, especially on Purim, There's no simcha like that. There are certain inhibitions that hold us back from expressing ourselves with this joy. People are sometimes embarrassed to dance with their full self. All of a sudden you give them a little bit of a drink. And they're able to remove those inhibitions. So some people it's drinks, some people it's music. Whatever... allows them to be able to express their true self. We wear costumes on Purim. One of the saddest behind the costume is... that it's all about the Pneumius Disciuntif. Megalos Esther is to reveal The penemius of ourselves. You might look like a gorilla on the outside. Doesn't make a difference what you look like on the outside. right now. It's about focusing on who you really are. And that simcha of the essence of a person is something that no one can ever take away. Uliyishrei leiv simcha. I just think as a Hachona, the best Hachona that we could do in preparing no official Uvda. No official of the, but in the mindset. of just trying to focus inward over the next few days. Not to get caught up. in the sometimes yet so horror of self-doubt. and introspection that sometimes causes destruction, but rather to focus deeper within the dimension of every one of us that's Kulay Taiv, that's Kulay Taiv, that's Kulay Lasses Ritzayim Cha Chafatzti, and that dimension will tap in deeper and deeper as we come towards Purim. And when it comes that holy day, V'yayim Ki Purim, that day of Ritzayim Lasses Ritzayim Cha, we will be able to express that self, without inhibitions. Not worrying about what people are going to think of how we're dancing. and how we are crying, and how we are expressing ourselves and our love for Hashem. That day comes, that is Hashem Yisrael, who will be in Yerushalayim, in the Kiddush. But until then, we'll celebrate as a kahal. Until then, Ad V'Ad B'Chlal. And then, Mitzvah Shalom, we'll celebrate as a kahila. Ba'iz HaShem Yisbarach, united. And let's say a shout out to all the Baruchas that Hashem wants to give us. Yeah, I should call everyone for the most enough to come and listen to me. And we'll be here with Surahs, Talos. And I finish on time, Baruch Hashem. Okay.
