Okay, there is Hashem. this Vadan Simcha should bring simcha to the Gantze Velt, especially the Eretz Israel and Go Moccam. שיש שאלם נמצאים. And the emes is that we want to have a moind, the unishmas. Avraham ben Benzion, and Nochamal Shmaryo, Yosef Chaim, Ben Yaakov Yisrael, and that Shem Chaim should be a Melitziyot, a Shef of Israel, that Hashem should say, Die, what so we say, and should bring the Geulah Shlem of a car of mamash. So we're coming to the uh the seum of a series. this series Torah never ends, Torah never ends. Like they say on the camp radio, on the loudspeaker. Learning never ends, learning never ends. No series ever ends, but for now we're making a Siyam on the series, closing out with Simcha Part 7. and how apropos that we're closing up the month of Adar Beis, Zoh Adar Beis tonight, we'll try to make it something that will be long-lasting, joy that lasts. Good morning, Masech, it's Shabbos, Lamed Aleph, Lamed Aleph, Ease Kasha. one of the contradictions that Chazal had within What do you say, Klehalas, in English? Excess? Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes. One of the contradictions that they found in Klehalas. On the one hand, Sholem Aleich says, v'shibachti anies ha-simcha I praise joy. On the other hand, שלנה נלך סעז ולשמחה מה זו עיסה? What's the point of this simcha? And the Gemara says it's a contradiction. And the Gemara answers, it depends what kind of simcha we're talking about. And the word simcha clearly in Kahelas has different connotations to it. Kaan simcha shel mitzvah. That's v'shibachteni as a simcha. Kaan v'simcha. שאינו יש שם מצווה. And that's L'simcha Ma'azu Oisa. That's the whole difference between these two joys. And although it's true we could analyze and probe into our understanding of the difference between true joy an empty joy Rav Pam Zatzal in his Sefer HaTorah L'melech highlights A major simon and difference. with a major recite. And he explains. When Shlomo Hamalach made a big sin, Chai just... Found in the Gemara, at least as a yeshiva, as a yeshiva man. I say yeshiva Bachar, not yeshiva Bachar, but as a yeshiva Bachar, no, we know Tanakh from the Gemara. So as a yeshiva man, which we all are, so probably you have the same experience, but you want to find something that you know from Tanakh, you look from the Gemara brings it. So the Gemara brings this in Leit Katan and Daftes, where Shana HaMelech made a celebration for the Beis HaMikdash. The past... They all went home. שמחים וטייבי לב. Joyful with a good heart. The entire series on Simcha, I wanted to mention this verse from Moshe Wolfson. And I forgot I had it, we waited to this moment, because this verse is really... goes right in here. Emotion Wilson asks... On the Megillah, how could Haman... It says about him, He came back from the party. זה מר וטוב לב. How could... Go eat. Arasa. בזייכת עשות של שמחה צמח וטוב לב. There it is. He was in the presence of Esther and Mordechai. for a few moments. Those few moments of being in the presence of a tzaddikis has a hashpa of a sameachvah type life. But Rav Pam is Medayek. in the possek In Malachim Aleph The passage says, Vayechu, Where does it say that they were happy? when they returned from the party. The party. The celebration, let's call it. If after a simcha, One feels happy. That's the sign. It was a ruchniestik of joy. That's the sign of the true joy. The sign between the difference, the difference between a simcha shel mitzvah and a simcha she'ena shel mitzvah is what happens afterwards. It's vayelchu lo'alem, they went back home. Smeiche v'tayve lev, zacharaya. that this simcha was a true joy. And perhaps, even though the English language is So I have the LFL for those motion I could this But perhaps two words that we use very often will help us at least put into some perspective the sugya that we're talking about, the difference between true joy and not true joy. There's something called fun. and the something called happiness. And there's a time and place for having fun. But we have to be very clear in our definition that fun is not happiness. Fun is not happiness. Like, you know, John sent me this beautiful Shia lecture, Shmooze, from Abram Tversky, where he says, Pleasure. is not happiness. Pleasure is pleasure. Fun is fun. But it's not happiness. Happiness is only found when there's something meaningful. and real. that a person is involved in. And it's true that the two could possibly be mixed together. There could be something that's fun and happy. But if all that was involved in something is fun alone or pleasure alone, than the aftermath of such. is going to be one thing. depression. If it's only fun, then the after is going to be depression. And this is what Shlomo HaMelech was talking about when Shlomo HaMelech says another Pesach. אחר שמחו? Tuga. After joy is depression. I don't understand. If. If simcha v'shibachti ne'aseh simcha, Elamai, we're talking about the same simcha that he was talking about when he said, l'simcha ma'azu oysa. Which simcha? Simcha that's empty. אחר שמחו? to go After. Joy, that's not real joy, that's just fun. after such simcha, is only depression. I remember Miller was talking about this once, when he was describing an individual who went to a party, a non-Jewish party, And he leaves the room. with all the noise and all the lights and all the drinks, and he comes out to a street. a cold, dark, lonely street. He left an excitement of fun and... Yeah, fun, excitement of fun. And he walks outside, nothing's left of it except a hangover. as opposed to a Yid. that leaves a Yiddish chassanah. that leaves the Simchas Torah. that leaves a Purim. He also walks in the outside in the dark. Cold Street. inside his Himself. Inside he's infused. He's uplifted. He's filled. He goes home with a... joy that he's gonna take with him. for days and maybe months and maybe years to come. There's a tape. Amazing tape, it's called Pour them forever. It's against your perm. So Rev Miller. says in this tape. How come? It's an amazing thing that there are more. at the end of Hilch's Megil, at the end of Hilch's Purim. He writes, Mr. Thomas. We mentioned this earlier on in the series of Simcha. How come at the end of Hilchot Purim, Rev Miller says... I'm sorry, it was our mosses. that someone is always happy. is always having a Mishta. Why does he write this at the end of El Chispor? He writes this at the end of the Alchosporum. Because he's trying to tell us. that somebody who celebrates a Purim properly then the Purim is going to continue. Long after. The Sudaspar. It's only a true simcha that continues afterwards. The simon that the simcho was real, is that the simcha doesn't end. with the end of Pur. And perhaps, maybe we could stelt zu something amazing that's found in the Gemara about the difference between The bracha on eating, and the bracha on Torah. And the Gemara says in brachas, on daflamet vav, the beginning of the sixth parakh, and then the Gemara says, Logically, logically, minasforo, The bracha for eating should be before eating. And the bracha for learning Torah should be after learning. And the question is why? Why does logic dictate that the bracha before eating that the brachon eating should be before, and the brachon ter should be afterwards. I don't remember who said this. A tzaddik echad explained the difference. The ikr hanna of food is specifically before. When you're sitting here, and you're very thirsty, and you come into the Litwin's house, and you see this incredible bottle of cherry Pepsi on the table, and you're looking at it, and you're very thirsty, so the hanna that you're about to imbibe this drink of Pepsi, It's a tremendous Hanoi. It's more Hanoi. then when you finish the meal, Because when you finish the meal, it's okay because you're full. But the fact that you're going to satisfy your hunger... It's more of a svar to make a bracha before eating than after. When it comes to Torah, the Svara is Va'Kert. the Ikir Hanno and specifically afterwards. more than the Hanah before you learn. Without going into that, you're sullied. And the difference between eating and Torah, I think what comes out from here is a mordekah raya to everything we're saying here. When someone's involved, in the Dover Shal Mitzvah, in the Dover Shal Torah. Afterwards is when you see How powerful. and how meaningful the thing you were just involved in was. The Gemara tells a story in Tainis, in the third parakh. I believe it was Rebbe Leiezer. The gemara says that Eliezer was walking down the street. He was happy. Rashi says, It's an unbelievable Rashi. Why was he happy? When a person finishes a sayidah, when he finishes with his chavrusa, he walks away infused with a real joy, a meaningful joy. That's the emesis simcha of life. The simcha that a person takes with him. The Torah says, And I believe it's the Al-Shikh that says, The Torah promises you that if you are filled with joy on your Chag, then there's a promise, there's a Haftacha. You're going to continue being happy for the rest of the year. It's going to come with you. מי אדם לסמחה The Hadusha Arim says. It doesn't say מי אדם של שמחה. When a person celebrates the Yom Tov, the celebration of the Yom Tov is for future joy. Because all, Avaydas Hashem. A person is infused with the simcha that he takes with him. I think the most important thing to remember as we come to this Siyum of seven, seven weeks, it was more than seven weeks, we had Purim, we had... Havad and Reb Chaim. Next week we'll have one Havad before Pesach, and then we'll have a Pesach break so everyone could make sure that they have Shalom Bais. But the Ezer Hashem. I think the most important thing on the Bais side that I want to share... to remember is that Rabbeinu Sholeilam wants us to be happy. happy in this world, and happy in the world to come. A person might think that maybe HaKadosh Baruch Hu just wants to give us the ultimate happiness of the reward, l'chai netzach. But that's not true. The Mishnah says so clearly that if you do retain Hashem, The Mishnah says, Ashraf is a lotion of joy. You will have happiness in this world. The time will come. And it's to understand clearly that at the end of the day, Yisva hodr levusha v'tis chak liyoyim acharon. The joy of Avdei Hashem. is not just in this world. But it's a joy that's l'netzach. and life. There are challenges, there are necessities, there are ups and there are downs. But there's one thing that has to remain constant. Whether it's Av, which should be a month of joy for Ezz Hashem this year. And whether it's the month of Adar, whether it's the month... of Shavuot, but it's the month of Iyar, there's one thing that always remains. equal and that's And when a person recognizes all the time as Hashem, when a person focuses on how much he is zeichetu, by being a yid, HaKadosh Baruch Hu will help us, Ve'ez HaShem Yisbaruch, to live our lives, Ve'ez HaShem, all of us and all of our families, Tzalang Yir, and Avichas Yom, Ve'ez HaShem, Tevim Masukim, live our lives, Ve'ez HaShem, continue to stay and learn and grow in every way. I wish you a B'Souras Tevis, Yeshua Svana Chamas, from Klal Yisrael. Yeshu Kayach, everyone, from my Ma'is HaNefesh, in the cold of March 29th, to come out and listen to me for a few minutes. I wish you a B'Souras Tevis. Yeshu Kayach. Thank you so much.
