We apologize for the, change or we are we we thank the or Anytime. I'm happy to rearrange for anybody besides just me. I've been trying to spread the word that no chasmas on Tuesday from now on. So far the word hasn't got out that far yet. So I think in three weeks, Tuesday afternoon. I'm waiting for the recording to start. Yeah, it's a Zoom. I don't know how many people are on there. My wife just told me that we have a wedding. Tuesday after Purim, so we will have to switch that Tuesday also. But for now, we're going to be Tuesday next week back here, right? Bez Hashem. And the week after Tuesday will be probably by Ari Monk. We'll confirm that. And then the week after Bez Hashem will be Wednesday again, if that's okay with everyone. We're holding Simcha Part 5, and we're hoping that at least by Rosh Chodesh Adosheni, we should be pumped as we get ready for Yom HaKippurim. Vaj vizkhus nishmas avram ben bintzien. O Vashon. I wonder if Jakob Kamilecki's yard set was today. And Chazal teaches us, as you can imagine, what the Vat is on tonight. Ein tsimcha kataras asveikis. There is no joy like the joy of resolution of doubt. And this particular statement is not just for Purim, it's again for all year round, but it's especially apropos as we prepare for the high holiday. It's a dance to the raw. There was a tree of knowledge, and the Zohar calls that tree the tree of doubt. Ilona Tisveika. The four Adam ate from the Eitz Hadass, Toiv and Ra, were very clear. It was on the outside of a person. The Yitzhar was on the outside of a person. And when Adam ate from the Eid Sadaas, The Yetzirahara was Nichnas Bifnim. And now, there's a mizug, there's a bilbul of Toiv and Ra inside a person. And there's something called doubt. indecisiveness not having clarity comes because of the Etadas. Etadas Toivara. Amazingly, a malek is the numerical value of Safegh. Because Amalek's great tafkid was just this, to create Suffolk within Klal Yisrael. The Rob spoke about this from the... Ozover, I think he quoted from. I saw it in Rav Moshe Wolfson Schlita's Sefer. That when Kalal Yisrael said, Hayesh Hashem Bekirbeinu Im Oyin. When there was some element of doubt by Kalal Yisrael at the end of B'Shalach, Ayob HaMolech, Ben HaMolech came. So the HaMashiach Wolfson says it this way also. At the Nachash, when he persuaded Chava, the word that the Torah uses is Hishiani. He persuaded, he persuaded me in that word Hishiani. is These two words, Hayesh Ayin. The Suffix that we find Baamalek is the same Suffix that we find by that first Nachash, that first encounter by the Eitz Hadass. And that's why When Chazal asked for a remez, For Haman, Haman min atoyom inayin. Hamina it's where we find Hamman where is Amalek? Where is the source of it all? It's in that tree, Hamin Ha'etz. That's where Bilbo and Safik came into the world. And that's how Malik's Tafkid. to try to bring into the cloud Israel. Ha'yeis ha'shan bikir beinu'l-layn. The suffix that's found in this tree of doubt, this tree of knowledge which created doubt within us, is in many, many ways, especially in oneself, internal conflicts. Like we find, by Eliphaz, just came to my head, that's Hashem, that internal conflict of Him wanting to fulfill the commandment of His Father. Esav, to kill Yaakov, but at the same time He doesn't want to kill Yaakov. He's trying to fulfill the command but not to kill him. This internal conflict of Toiv and Ra, the Mizug within a person. That's Hashem, that will be volume 2. Volume 1. of resolution of doubts. is specifically the suffix that Amalek puts within Klaus Israel. In HaKadosh Baruch Hu HaShkacha Pratis Hayesh Hashem Bekirbeinu Imayim is what Amalek brings to Kal Yisrael. Suffolk dealt in Hashkachopratis. And what is the joy of Purim? The Ataras Hasveikos? The Ein Sinchok Ataras Hasveikos is when we realize through Purim, through the Nase of Purim, through the Yom Tovah Purim, that everything that happens in our lives is Kol Kulay Hashkocha Protest to the last. minutest detail. If we think about it, one of the biggest menis of joy in a person's life is the worry and concerns of life. And what's going to be? How's it going to work out? In which direction? Am I gonna go? Hayei shasem be'kirdeinu. Asher korcho baderech, Amalek brings. The thoughts of Chas V'Shalom Mikra, Asher Karuch HaBaDerech, and the Sfeikus are overwhelming. The Pasuk says, in Parashat Ba'ira, I believe it's the Ramban that says. that on that possek HaKadosh Baruch Hu was teaching us the Amunah, it's either the Ramban or maybe the Kliyakar, the Amunah in Hashkach HaPratis. Which Pasek? L'man teida ki'ani Hashem B'kerev ha'aretz So the Chayrat, that's exactly what a Moloch What's causing Kalal Yisrael to ask, Hayesh Hashem Bekir Beinu? You have to know. Know it in your bones. Ki ani Hashem b'kerev ha'aretz. B'kerev ha'aretz is specifically referring to HaKadosh Baruch Hu's Ashkoch HaProtis. And the joy that we have to start feeling now, Mar Ben Besimcha, is internalizing the Torah's asphekis. There's no doubt. There is no suffix. It's VADAY. It's a hundred thousand percent VADAY. VADAY be VADOS. R.Kadosh Baruch Hu's 1000% in charge is running every detail of our lives, letoivaseinu. And that, dear, should give us that joy and peace of mind. I was by Revolver years ago. I used to go every Shabbos. I used to walk from my house to Kol Teira. It's about a 15, 10, 15 minute walk. Revolver would come to Kol Teira by car right after Shabbos. And he would give a shmuz. And then Dagmar. He would make Havdol before he would come. Havdol before Marav. Make Havdol in his house. Come to give a shmuz in Kol Teira. And then Dagmar after the shmuz. I used to go a lot to the shmuz. And he once said, from what we see in Dabling in Rosh Hashanah, Havadai Sh'moi came to Hilasai. His name is Vadai. And so is his praise. And he said, the praise of Hashem is when we are sure of Hashem. The sureness that we have in our emunah in Hashem Hashem is the greatest praise. Kein Teh Yilasa. The little nose. that Right now, in my personal life, I am in the midst of a major life decision, which has been shelved until after Purim. So like all vadim, especially this one, this vad, is especially for me. And the chizuk that I received, punkt, this morning, You have to look throughout the day, and that's definitely going to be the Uvda. Look throughout the day. HaKadosh Baruch Hu is showing us, no, HaKadosh Baruch Hu is showing us Hashkacha Pratis all day. We have to look for it. We have to open our eyes to see the Hashkacha Pratis in our lives. And I'm pumped this morning. I was saying to him from my aunt, who again needs a reforged Lema Chava B'as Bela, and I opened up to my parakh that I chose, and the words that came out right after I started saying, Hashlecha Lashem Ya'avcha, V'hu Yichakalacha. Just throw your bundle on Hashem. and he will sustain you. when we're carrying the load of our decisions, It's heavy. When we are carrying the load of our decisions, it's heavy. It's overwhelming. We're carrying the load. That's the problem. Dora Milox says, hashtag Hashem, why are you carrying it? Why are you carrying the load? Didn't you make a bracha this morning? Baruch HaMei Chin B'tz Adeg Ovar. Of course, the first pshad is talking about walking. But the second as important pshad is that HaKos Baruch Hu prepares the steps of man. Every step a man takes in his life, wherever he goes, wherever he is supposed to go, Hashem is preparing his steps. And he prepared it long before. What are you worried about? The Taurus has fake his is. Removing all the doubt and recognizing that HaKadosh Baruch Hu is in charge. Why is it called Purim? Sevsei Chaim beautifully says, That there were two poo rims, there were two poors. No, there wasn't. There was one lot. That was... Thrown by Haman. It was one lot thrown. A poor. Who had their role? No, no, no. There were two lots. There was Haman's lot. And there was our lot. It was one lot that was a mixture of two completely different perspectives. Haman's and Lahav Del Aour's. There was Purim. There were two Purim taking place in one Pur. His poor was the Purah of Mikra. An hour, poor. was a poor of Korah Me'ashem. Korah Me'ashem. His poor was a lot of coincidence. And our lot was a lot of coincidence. Who says that word again? I forgot. Ka incident. It's an incident from Ka, from Hashem. He is poor. was asher karcha badarach, and ours was, l'man teyda ki'ni hashem, the care of our hearts. I was sitting in... in Blue Ridge. This has nothing to do with the Vaad, the Etzen, the Blue Ridge part. Rabbi Daniel Kehles had us for Rosh Hashanah, he had us for the Tavshin Ayin, for Rosh Hashanah in Blue Ridge. And Rabbi Kehles goes around the table. And he says, Rabbeu Yisrael, everyone should share a story. about Hashem Melech, how they saw this week Hashem Melech in their lives. And he said to my son, Naira, And then he said, Rabbi Yisrael, don't... Rabbi Yisrael can't do an invitation. Well, but... Not for now. But so, Rabbi Kalish says, Rabbi Daniel, Yedidi, so he says, even if you forget something, It's also a Shukra Chabratz. Don't forget that. Even if you forget something, it's a Shukra Chabratz. So I was thinking about those words, the whole As-Saras Meit Shuvah. I don't think I told the story yet. Maybe I did. It's almost three years that we're saying Vadim, so I apologize if you heard this from me already. I don't think so. I come to do Tashlich Erev Yom Kippur. You heard the story from me? No. Come to do Tashlich Erev Yom Kippur that year, Tav Shanaim. My kids, we go to the beach. And, of course, when you're doing Tashlich Erev Yom Kippur, what Makhzor do you bring? Yom Kippur Makhzor. or you're holding by Yom Kippur but there's no Tashlich in Yom Kippur Matzah it's from Rosh Hashanah Matzah I said to the girls, my son, I said, I'm sorry guys, we gotta do Tashlech at home. I don't have the right makhzor. So they're like, what do you mean? You can't do Tashlech at home? We're not allowed to? And the first answer, I said, when you forget something, I said, guys, when you forget something, it's from Hashem. It's from Hashem. It's from Hashem. And then I'm getting back to the car. They're very disappointed. I open up the Yom Kippur. I don't know why I opened it. And there it was. Tashlech. I opened up to the Haftairah of Yainah. Right there. Tashlich is in Yom Kippur, in Machzar. Mi Kel Kameichon. The Ikr Tashlich is right there in Yom Kippur. And Ramoshev is like a blitz. An unbelievable chizok. Like a kush from the Eberstein. So this week, Thursday, I'm leaving my house to go pick up Rev. Kaladetsky at 5.15 a.m. That's not a time that I usually see. I know many of you do see that time, but that's not a time that I'm usually looking at. And two nights before, the Gabbai had sent Rev. Kaladetsky's new phone to my house to bring to Rev. Kaladetsky when I pick him up from the airport. I make a left on Seegert, and sure enough... I forgot the phone and right away bing bing it's Tavshan Ayin now Tavshan Pei Beis 12 years later first thing that comes to my head Daniel said that Vart as he was standing in the house there he said when you forget it's from the Eberster and I mamish I came to such a clarity I made a left turn passing a Taras member I said Eberster I know I forgot this for a reason I made a left turn on New Haven. Nice Hashaya. True story. I'm driving past New Haven, and I come to the end of the block in front of, from Yitzha's house. Yossi Wiseman, the security guard, Yishiv Dar Chitara. And there is a raging fire that broke out in front of his house. I have two pictures here. I wasn't taking pictures during the fire. You'll see afterwards. And I'm sitting there in my car. And the entire garbage is on fire. And the entire fence in front of his house is on fire. And I'm like, I'm supposed to do something. I'm not sure what. I don't know how to even call the fire department. And a Schwarzer, I don't know what he was doing up at that time, passes by me. And he rolls, he puts down his hands like, We gotta call the... fire department. I'm like, yeah, we do. And both of us in the third schwarzen, all of us called the fire department, called 911, and Baruch Hashem, they got through. I got out of the car. I'm trying to think of, like, what are you supposed to do when there's a fire? Until the fire department comes, we've got to wake them up. So one of the schwarzes, a decent fellow, he jumps around because there's no way to get to the house. The house was on fire in front. Okay? So he jumped on the fence on the other side. He starts banging on the door. All three of us, 5 a.m. in the morning. The whole block is out cold. We're all standing there screaming, fire, fire. And they woke up for me. Weissman's book. from me. They come down the steps and they open the thing. Meanwhile, as they're opening the door, so I call out. Who am I supposed to call? I call out Sala. I don't know what I'm supposed to. Because the fire department's not here yet. The fire is raging. This is a raging fire. There must have been some gasoline in there. I don't know exactly what was in there. Anyways, I called out on Rosenberg. I kept calling until he woke up. He's like, what's going on? I'm like, I'm sorry, but there's a fire here. I might need you. I'm not sure. some lady comes out with a fiery stainless shirt and starts spring it and only gets the top half. Just then, Yossi and his family come out. Mom is screaming. He goes, Pachat Chodim. All the kids. And I said, calm down. He says to his wife, I don't know why Rabbi Kielsen is here, but Rabbi Kielsen is here. I'm telling you, it was like the Maluch. He was like, Rabbi Kielsen is dressed with a suit and tie. He's sitting here. And he's saving us. I don't know why. I said, Yossi, just everyone calm down. Pass me the kids. I'm going to put them into the car. Pass me the... kids. Just then another lady came, another man came actually with a fire extinguisher. He started spraying it, and Baruch Hashem, within a few moments, as it went out, the fire department comes down the street. Mrs. Rosenberg came running, and you can see, my ink is not really working well, but I only took a picture after it was Baruch Hashem, Baruch Hashem, out. But this is the fire, it's a very bad picture, but this is, my ink wasn't working well, but this is the actual fence. You'll see how close the fence and the house is. Anyways, the kids are in Naisa, so I said, Yassi, you're okay? Everyone's like, Baruch Shalom, we're okay, we're okay. And I jump back in my car. I reek like smoke. And I run back in the car, run back to my house. And I'm just like shaking from the whole Naisa. I come to my house, I'm looking for the phone. There's no phone anywhere. The whole house went upstairs. I went to the car, back three times. I said, I'm about to go into the car, and I see it sitting by the garbage. It's a bag with a phone inside. I had taken the garbage out. On my way out at 5.15 to the car, and I dropped the phone. The Abishter wants me to drop the phone. And I picked up the phone, I jump into the car, run to the airport. I pick up a Kandetsky, He gets into the car and I... that you're not going to believe what just happened. He screams out, Last week's parasha. the whole way to the airport, I cried the whole way to the airport. I felt that I was to see mamas like a maze goalie. It was the hashkocho protis. As people were saying, you know, at the end of the day, you know, who called the fire department? So obviously I was supposed to be there. Exactly why I was supposed to be there is a good question. Exactly why I was supposed to calm them, to wake them up from the fire. What? We didn't have to, but Rabbi Pfeiffer said to me last night, he said, who knows if the Shartzes were even called. They saw on the video that people passed by at 5.30, saw the fire, looked at it, and continued. So there's no, we don't even know. Who knows if the Shartzes were even called. We're talking about 5-10 minutes the house was on fire. I'll tell you, the fire was so close to the house, they called me up, Yossi calls me up, Yossi Weissman, Tzadik, his family, family. He called me at 6.30. He says, what just happened? I said, Yossi, you don't even know the half. He says, thank you, thank you. They sent me a cake for Shabbos. I don't have any cake. Just Haidot HaShem. And so she called me, Arab Shabbos, and I said, no, I'm going home because I'm not in Baruch HaShem. There wasn't, they weren't in the Sakana yet, Baruch HaShem, but they're making a Kiddush this Shabbos. I said, Taif HaShem. This is the Akhan of Arab Purim. Every day. We shouldn't have to see fires. But every day, every day, to open our eyes, once a day at least, to see the Hashkacha protest in our lives, that's the biggest maravim of simcha as we prepare for the Yom Tov of the Ezer Hashem.
