I want to thank the Litvins for opening their home. That is Steiner from Sirius Neffet. I'm the Vaj, be it's khos li'l nishma, savron ben bentsion. And also for Shimon Schwab, his Yartzai was yesterday, Purim Katan actually. I have a picture of his kever, which is quite fascinating to look at because of the particular posik that he chooses to put on his kever. It's just fascinating. Mechaseb Shav lo yatsliach. writes the source from Mishle, that's what's on his camera. He was Rav in these cities. And he's Rav here in Washington Heights. That's the whole thing that's on his camera. Halei Dover. The Vashem Yitzchus Nishmas, Rav Shimon ben Yehuda, Zeichatzal, the Kalesh of Rachel. So one of the songs that Fadl Chaim, my good friend, Lavi Greenspan, sings every time he's together with other Jews, is Mitzvah G'day L'Aliyai. b'simcha liyai b'simcha ta'min I believe it's famously quoted from Rav Nachman is that correct? Rav John but not to minimize the khashivas of that statement I should have reached out to Rav Hefayim today I forgot to see that's the Uytar HaChachma that I reach out to the live Uytar HaChachma to find out where the source for everything is. But not to minimize the holiness of that statement, There is a statement of the Torah. that brings out this great aside. if not a command, at least the ultimate encouragement. ושמחת בכל הטוב You shall be happy with all the good that Hashem is giving you. B'SAMACHTA BECHOL HATEV And even though it's true that There are a lot of reasons for us to be happy. Baruch Hashem. B'liya Inhara. The greatest cause. For joy though. בחי רע is for the gift of life itself. Simchas hachayim. Simcha bachayim. Joy because of the indescribable gift, indescribable in its value, the gift of life itself. if we would just realize how great the opportunity of life is. Rav Miller often, that's how he says often, Rav Miller often would tell over the story of the Mashkiach of Lamja, who was walking down the hallway of the yeshiva. And he sees a Talmud who was sad and despondent. And he grabbed him by the lapel. And he said, Mazel Tov, Mazel Tov The boy was like, what's going on? What's the muzzle stuff? I said, don't you know? It's a mazel tov. He said, what? You're alive. It's a mazel tov that you're alive. It's a muscle tub that you're alive. And Miller all the time says that nice thing. One time, the Abadale Chaim Rav Shimon Feigenbaum, our very own 3rd grade Rebbe in Darche Teira, some of us were zechat to heaven with for our sons. And he said that he was very close to a miller. He actually used to eat by his house for Shabbos. He said in his house, he used to give out to everyone. He's very mocked on germs. Everyone had their own towel. Right? Like that, everyone had their own towel. By their seats when they washed, they had their own towel because of germs. He would never touch a doorknob. He used the bottom of his frock to touch a doorknob. And straps on a subway? Yeah. about that. But that's a separate story. So, Fagerman was once walking out of a shiver house. With Riv Miller. And he said, Rebbe, what should we learn from this? From this experience that we just experienced? And he said, what should we learn? רוידה, אני לפניך שחזרת בינש מוסי The greatest thing. Ad v'chai yiten aliboy. When Leileinu has to go to a shithouse, Izvahachai, he tenali boy. The fact that he's chai is the greatest inspiration. that a person must have. when he comes into contact. With Misa Hashem Yirach. Avishai Mishmolevitz Atzal famously speaks about the three advisors of Paro. And now each one receive middak and neged middah. His. Reward or punishment to Yisra'el, his children, sat on the Sanhedrin. Eve. was punished with Yisurim because he didn't say anything. He was quiet. That's a separate Shemuz. Why that was Middik and Ege Middik, also of Chaim Shmulevitz. And Bila received the Kherev. He was killed because he spoke against the Jews. And of course, the obvious question is, the Chayra. What Balaam received seems to be much better than Eve. Why is Balaam's punishment worse than Eve? Eve had to suffer Yisrael in this world. Sez Ruchayim, Shmuel Levitz. Because Chazal are teaching us very clearly here the words of David HaMelech. The person shouldn't have to go to you soon. But Yisroel is better than Mesa. אני מחיימש בלבץ. connects this to Rashi, the end of Kedushin. Plus it says in Eve, what should a person complain about? Chai So amazingly... The post-it says... I know it's 12 p.m. I'm just trying to remember where. It's not as obvious when you read the Pesach. where the Kama is supposed to be. and it's clear From the lesson. Arashi at the Posikus is saying, Ma Yisoynein Odom Kamo? Chai. If he has the gift of life. Pretty much remember what Rashi says. Rashi says over there at the end of the Kedushin, What should a person complain about? You have a saying. Eve herself was saying. I think it's Eiv saying, maybe Hashem saying to Eiv. Ma Yis'aynin Odom. I think it's Hashem saying, because Rashi says, what should a person complain about? If I gave you the gift of life, what is there? even possible for you to complain about if you were given The gift of life. You have the gift of life. That's everything. The gift of life is everything. Kaldetsky shared with me. how his father He was very, very sick. And the last Shabbos of his life. He was at a point where Rahman al-Sani couldn't speak. Couldn't eat, couldn't do anything. He didn't know what was going on even. And the doctor came to the house and the doctor said, if he stays home, He'll probably have another hour to live. If you take him to the hospital, I'll probably live through the night. They called an ambulance on Shabbos and took his father to the hospital and he was nifted on Sunday. And during the shiva, Rabbi Yosef came to Benachem Ovo and he said, Rabbi, did we do right? We're going to Shabbos. And I'll be watching this at the fairish in Michigan on Shabbos. Mechah Olin Shabbos, even for Chayesho. for a minute of life Michalol and Shabbos for a minute of life. Do you know what life is? One minute. What kind of life? A life where the person doesn't even know what's going on. A life with a person can do nothing. Hashem Yirachim. But it's life. It's life. Another minute of life. And if Kaldetsky said to bring out the point even stronger, imagine you have a forest. A balloon that's owned by someone. And there's a fire that breaks out on Shabbos. And the entire forest is just going up in flames. He says, imagine. this forest if you'd sell the wood in this forest. It's worth... okay, let's say thousands and thousands of dollars, maybe hundreds of thousands of dollars, a very big forest, whatever it is, a situation where... The case is... A very expensive piece of land is going up in flames. And this money can be used to support all yeshivas in America. The emergence of the thing. I mean, the same thing would be if a safe was going up in flames. We don't have to use a forest, but maybe a forest is just more Allah Allah life. And you want to tell a guy, you want a hint to a guy. You just want a hint to a guy. Maybe you want to take care of that. A lot of money going up in flames right now. Kibuy, if you can tell Amir al-Aqam, he said it's two drabanans. The alums, maybe we can figure it out. He said it's two drabanans that comes out. Two drabanans and you will save all of America? Every yeshiva in America you can pay for. This guy, he promises Hashem he'll take all that money and he'll give it to all the yeshivas in America. There'll be Torah for the next... 50 years From one schwuss to schwuss. I don't... Awesome. Awesome. It's not because I'm a fish, yeah? Awesome. Let's say it's Drabbanim, one Drabbanim. L'maysa. all the money in the world, it's Asr L'Chabis. For one minute of a person's life, of a human life, not one life. One minute of a person's life in B'charon Shabbos Dei Reisah. Because all the money in the world is nothing. next to a minute of life, next to a minute of living on this world. I have a friend. Chaim Stern, so gezun sein, special yid. So his wife His mother-in-law is from England, from London, I believe. And her father was nifter recently, a big tzaddik. The last tkufah of his life, Hashem Yirachim, suffered from ALS. And his daughter, Khayim's grandmother, was so mustard to her father, she actually flew to London and would stay there for weeks at a time just to sit by her father all day, taking care of him. She would walk in every morning. And she would say, Daddy, Daddy, how are you this morning? And he would use his eyes with the computer. Unbelievable things that Hashem allowed to be revealed today. He'd use his eyes to move the mouse on the screen. And he would say, Baruch Hashem. I thank Hashem from the computer. I thank Hashem for another day of life. This is what he would say. A person who cannot move even one finger, one movement of his entire body, He's thanks Hashem for the gift of life. Moida'an lefanacha, how lucky he is to be alive. It's not human. You can't wrap your head around it. How much more so? Evchaz Dei Hashem. Ki Laisamno. The person is healthy and well. שמחה סכיים. To rejoice. Can a person not be dancing day and night that he has the skhus to be alive and to be healthy alive? There's one more dimension that I really was the inspiration for this entire series. I don't think I got to mention it last year before Purim. We said two or three words right before Purim at the gathering in Ari Monk's house, which I hope we can do again, Be'ezez Hashem. in three weeks. Or so. But there was one Vart that's Mamsha, a life altering Vart. The Goyin says that Haman We might say Purim Katanel. Haman tried to do four things. Lahashmid, laharaygal abed. Ushlom L'Avvai's. Goyin says, the four things he wanted to do, there were four mitzvahs. He wanted L'Hashmid. Goyim says he wanted a Shemaad. the Jewish people. Connected that. is the mitzvah of Micromigilla. Torah was added because he wanted to shemaar. He wanted Laroig to kill the lives of the Jewish people. Connected that. is המצב סמכן סיימתי, סמכן סיימתי. That's the mitzvah that we do on Purim. He wanted to destroy the bodies of the Jewish people, to cremate them. Hashem Yirachim. connected that There's two mitzvahs. A kilo of Shia Amparim? And it's a Mishlech Monos which is also part of Achila. He wanted the Shlom Lava to take the money of the Jewish people. That is the mitzvah of the money of Matanus Lev Yain. But there are four other things that's also k'neged. Like Yehuda, That's k'neged Ishmael. סינכה זו ימתו, דצכה נגד לאהרויק. Sasa Nzumila? That's what our bodies can make of the Abed. The car is twilling? That's connected. Ush-Tolom L'Veiz, he wanted to take our money. We have a mitzvah of Ya'kar of Tvelon. I was thinking about this years ago. What hit me, the Ezra Hashem is as follows. It comes out. And if you look at what the Goyin is saying, he's saying that K'neged taking life is the mitzvah of joy. connected life. is joy. That means one equals the other. He wanted to take away life. So how do we celebrate the fact? that Hashem gave us life. How do you celebrate life? How do you express life? You're alive. Okay, so how do you express that? You express life by being happy. Happy. is an expression of life. That's how you celebrate the fact that Hashem gave us life on Purim. He wanted Laraig? So what do we do? Simcha Because that's... What's... כנגד. taking away life. I said this over to my Rebbe, Rebbe Lieber Schlittener at Israel. And he said, He holds, and he's a Talmudic Rav Hutner. רצממש. either MS or chloroval MS. It's a big cross. HaKadosh Baruch Hu, Kav Yochol, is Elohim Chaim. By HaKadosh Baruch Hu it says, Oiz v'chedva b'mukai may. By Hashem, who is a Likim Chaim. There is always joy by Hashem. Kavyecho. There is always joy. When a person wants to express. The fact that he's alive, it's not just an expression with his words and his heart. It's an expression in his whole Mitzius, His whole Mitzius expresses the fact that he's alive by being happy. Simcha Sachayim is Be'etzen. How does a person... Be alive, someone says to you. Look alive, will you? Look alive So what is he saying to you? What does it mean to look alive? How do you look alive? You move, you jump. Look alive means be happy. That's life. Life equals happiness. And Be'ez Hashem, if we start thinking about that, especially as we're going, as we're in the Zman, of Mishnichas Adar, Ma'ar Ben B'Simcha, the greatest thing we can do, by showing Hashem how happy we are for this gift that He's giving us, and He should continue to give all of us and our families, and our families, and all of Israel, and we should be grateful to all the gifts from Hashem. Thank you everybody for being most in effort to switch your night on me. Bez Hashem, next week we'll be back to regular time, right here, Simcha Part 4.
